---
layout: default
title: MyMedia
branch: master
---

<div class="description">
A client and server combo for serving mp3s and other local media over your local network to your Roku set-top box.
</div>

h2. Getting Started

Check out the "installation guide":README.html for all the details but you'll basically be doing this:

# Download and install python for your platform
# Download MyMedia
# Put your Roku into developer mode
# Run springboard to install the channel on your Roku and start the server

h2. For the Daring

The features that eventually make it into the main distribution start their lives in the "developer's preview":developers_preview.html version. If you're willing to encounter and "report":http://forums.roku.com/viewtopic.php?&t=25955 a few bugs please give it a try! We need your help to iron out the wrinkles for everyone else.

h2. Feature Requests

Do you really need something that you don't see here or in the developers preview? "Tell us about it":http://spreadsheets.google.com/viewform?formkey=dHU2Mzd6UlVYLUtEZjM4cm9JZEc3bkE6MA or "see what others have suggested.":http://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0AptzIozyjLJQdHU2Mzd6UlVYLUtEZjM4cm9JZEc3bkE&hl=en

h2. License

p. GNU General Public License

h2. Authors

Brian Taylor "el.wubo@gmail.com":mailto:el.wubo@gmail.com

* czarjosh
* hoffmcs
* renojim
* onecaribou
* umbighouse

h2. Contact

"Users Forum":http://forums.roku.com/viewtopic.php?&t=25955

"Developers Mailing List":http://groups.google.com/group/mymedia-roku-developers

h2. Download

You can download this project in either "zip":http://github.com/netguy204/roku_media_server/zipball/master or "tar":http://github.com/netguy204/roku_media_server/tarball/master formats.

You can also clone the project with "Git":http://git-scm.com by running:

pre. $ git clone git://github.com/netguy204/roku_media_server
